History of HTML 

The first version of HTML was written by Tim Berners-Lee in 1993. Since then, there have been many different versions of HTML. The most widely used version throughout the 2000's was HTML 4.01, which became an official standard in December 1999. 

Another version, XHTML, was a rewrite of HTML as an XML language. XML is a standard markup language that is used to create other markup languages. Hundreds of XML languages are in use today, including GML (Geography Markup Language), MathML, MusicML, and RSS (Really Simple Syndication). Since each of these languages was written in a common language (XML), their content can easily be shared across applications. This makes XML potentially very powerful, and it's no surprise that the W3C would create an XML version of HTML (again, called XHTML). XHTML became an official standard in 2000, and was updated in 2002. XHTML is very similar to HTML, but has stricter rules. Strict rules are necessary for all XML languages, because without it, interoperability between applications would be impossible. You'll learn more about the differences between HTML and XHTML in Unit 2.. 

Most pages on the Web today were built using either HTML 4.01 or XHTML 1.0. However, in recent years, the W3C (in collaboration with another organization, the WHATWG), has been working on a brand-new version of HTML, HTML5. Currently (2011), HTML5 is still a draft specification, and is not yet an official standard. However, it is already widely supported by browsers and other web-enabled devices, and is the way of the future. Therefore, HTML5 is the primary language taught in this course. 

Different HTML Versions: 

HTML 1.0. The basic version of HTML has support for basic elements like text controls and images.  

HTML 2. HTML version 2.0 was developed in 1995 with basic intention of improving HTML version 1.0.  

HTML 3.2. It was developed in 1997. 

HTML 4.01. It was developed in 1999. 

HTML5. 

W3C HTML Validator. 

 

Backward compatibility issues: 

Lack of Testing on Real Devices 

HTML/ CSS Validation 

Vendor-specific functions 

DOCTYPE Error 

Outdated Browser Detection 

Missing CSS Resets 

Layout Compatibility 

 

Advantages and disadvantages of coding HTML and using HTML editors 

Advantages of HTML: 
1. It is widely used. 
2. Every browser supports HTML language. 
3. Easy to learn and use. 
4. It is by default in every windows so you don't need to purchase extra software. 

Disadvantages of HTML: 
1. It can create only static and plain pages so if we need dynamic pages then HTML 
is not useful. 
2. Need to write lot of code for making simple webpage. 
3. Security features are not good in HTML. 
4. If we need to write long code for making a webpage then it produces some complexity. 